---
layout: page
---

# DoWhy Installation

DoWhy support Python 3.6+. To install, you can use pip or conda.

### Latest Release

Install the latest [release](https://pypi.org/project/dowhy/) using pip.

```shell
pip install dowhy
```

Install the latest [release](https://pypi.org/project/dowhy/) using conda.

```shell
conda install -c conda-forge dowhy
```

If you face "Solving environment" problems with conda, then try conda update --all and then install dowhy. If that does not work, then use conda config --set channel_priority false and try to install again. If the problem persists, please add your issue [here](https://github.com/microsoft/dowhy/issues/197).

### Development Version

If you prefer the latest dev version, clone this repository and run the following command from the top-most folder of the repository.

```shell
pip install -e .
```

### Requirements

DoWhy requires the following packages:

- numpy
- scipy
- scikit-learn
- pandas
- networkx (for analyzing causal graphs)
- matplotlib (for general plotting)
- sympy (for rendering symbolic expressions)
- If you face any problems, try installing dependencies manually.

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Optionally, if you wish to input graphs in the dot format, then install pydot (or pygraphviz).

For better-looking graphs, you can optionally install pygraphviz. To proceed, first install graphviz and then pygraphviz (on Ubuntu and Ubuntu WSL).

```shell
sudo apt install graphviz libgraphviz-dev graphviz-dev pkg-config
## from https://github.com/pygraphviz/pygraphviz/issues/71
pip install pygraphviz --install-option="--include-path=/usr/include/graphviz" \
--install-option="--library-path=/usr/lib/graphviz/"
```

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

---

# EconML Installation


Install the latest release from PyPI:

    > pip install econml


## For Developers

You can get started by cloning this repository. We use 
[setuptools](https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) for building and distributing our package.
We rely on some recent features of setuptools, so make sure to upgrade to a recent version with
`pip install setuptools --upgrade`.  Then from your local copy of the repository you can run `pip install -e .` to get started (but depending on what you're doing you might want to install with extras instead, like `pip install -e .[plt]` if you want to use matplotlib integration, or you can use  `pip install -e .[all]` to include all extras).

## Running the tests

This project uses [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/) for testing.  To run tests locally after installing the package, you can use `pip install pytest-runner` followed by `python setup.py pytest`.

We have added pytest marks to some tests to make it easier to run a subset, and you can set the PYTEST_ADDOPTS environment variable to take advantage of this.  For instance, you can set it to `-m "not (notebook or automl)"` to skip notebook and automl tests that have some additional dependencies. 

## Generating the documentation

This project's documentation is generated via [Sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/main/index.html).  Note that we use [graphviz](https://graphviz.org/)'s 
`dot` application to produce some of the images in our documentation, so you should make sure that `dot` is installed and in your path.

To generate a local copy of the documentation from a clone of this repository, just run `python setup.py build_sphinx -W -E -a`, which will build the documentation and place it under the `build/sphinx/html` path. 

The reStructuredText files that make up the documentation are stored in the [docs directory](https://github.com/py-why/EconML/tree/main/doc); module documentation is automatically generated by the Sphinx build process.

## Release process

We use GitHub Actions to build and publish the package and documentation.  To create a new release, an admin should perform the following steps:

1. Update the version number in `econml/_version.py` and add a mention of the new version in the news section of this file and commit the changes.
2. Manually run the publish_package.yml workflow to build and publish the package to PyPI.
3. Manually run the publish_docs.yml workflow to build and publish the documentation.
4. Under https://github.com/py-why/EconML/releases, create a new release with a corresponding tag, and update the release notes.



<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

---

# Causal-learn Installation

## Install
Causal-learn needs the following packages to be installed beforehand:

- python 3 (>=3.7)
- numpy
- networkx
- pandas
- scipy
- scikit-learn
- statsmodels
- pydot

(For visualization)
- matplotlib
- graphviz

To use causal-learn, we could install it using pip:

    > pip install causal-learn